b"It's not really a review but my attempt to explain how I interpreted the movie to those who complain that the film is overrated, especially if the reason is that they didn't like the second half of it."
1b"It's much easier to understand the message of a movie when the 'good guys' win or the 'bad guys' get punished in the end. I'm not saying that all Hollywood films are so naive in their portrayal of moral values. But still, I believe that Parasite is much more subtle than most other movies that people are accustomed to watching in which there's a character with a clearer 'moral center' whom audiences can easily relate to. So, I think it's no surprise if the message of this film had failed to register for some of the audiences."
2b'Some complained that they don\'t understand Ki-Taek\'s motive for killing Mr. Park. But to fully appreciate this, you need to understand the meaning of a recurring expression in the dialogue which is, "crossing the line".'
3b"It's a deliberately ambiguous phrase that can either read as one should respect other people's privacy or as one should mind one's own (social) position instead of meddling with the affairs of those in a different position. If interpreted as the latter meaning, it can serve as another image that emphasizes the subject matter of the narrative, along with more easy to notice the metaphor of the two families' respective dwellings."
4b'It would probably have satisfied such audiences who expected more lighthearted drama if the movie focused on an underprivileged, but more likable family exploiting a cold hearted snobbish family in a comical manner. But the movie would have lost all its genuine charms if Bong Joon-Ho chose such a path, and he is too good a director not to see such a danger.'
5b"Instead, he chose to make Mr. Park a reasonable enough character, despite his occasional hints that reveal his true nature. He seems to treat Ki-Taek fairly enough at first, but he also warns the latter not to 'cross the line' if Ki-Taek attempts to pry into his private life."
6b"At first, it seems that it's quite easy for Ki-Taek and other members of his family to sneak into Mr. Park's house in various roles and mingle with them. Ki-Taek even compliments how nice Mr. Park's family is, but his premature admiration soon gets challenged when he overheard, when he was hiding under the table, what Mr. Park really thinks of him - almost a different species of the human being who doesn't even smell like him."
7b"Ki-Taek's final disillusionment came when Mr. Park cringes from the smell of the dead basement dweller and shows much more concern for his son's shock while virtually ignoring Ki-Taek's daughter's status who's dying on the ground, spurting blood from the stab wound."
8b'That moment, Ki-Taek realizes how Mr. Park sees him and his whole family as not an equal human being, but something much more insignificant.'
9b"And he also realizes the 'line' that separates the two families is not just that of courtesy or proper social behaviour. Instead, it is a line that can even determine the life of those 'lesser' human beings to be less important than the passing unpleasant feelings or mental shock of those 'proper' human beings."
10b"However easy it was for Ki-Taek's family to sneak into Mr. Park's house, or however they try to socialize and mingle with Mr. Park's family, their existence is no better than that of a 'parasite', which is also visualized so effectively by the presence of the hidden basement room inside the house."
11b"With such disillusionment and anger, Ki-Taek chose to kill Mr. Park, as a parasite could to its host, and like a parasite, he keeps hiding deep inside the dead host's body until he could claim the whole of the carcass and use it as nourishment for his offsprings."
12b"The tragedy was not something caused by any exceptional defect or vice of either Mr. Park's or Ki-Taek's personalities. Instead, it's a 'line' drawn by an invisible hand, separating those classes according to their respective social conditions, which can be so brutal as to be able to deprive the two families of their humanity in contrasting manners. And that is what I believe to be the message this film is trying to convey."
13b'Of course, not every movie must make a commentary on society rather than providing a care-free pastime that everyone can understand.'
14b"But without if the movie didn't change its gear in the second half to shed light on a serious inherent problem of our society, it would be just another heist gone wrong type comedy, instead of a deserving candidate to be called the best film of the year."
15b"I am remarkably stingy with my 10/10 ratings. I'll be the first person to acknowledge this. Of the roughly 2600 titles I've rated on here, only 34 have a 10.\nParasite is one of them. If this isn't a masterpiece, then I don't know what is."
16b"I'm going to keep it vague on the plot-front, because I didn't know anything about it going in, and was really excited to see it progress and unfold in satisfying, unexpected ways."
17b"What I will say is that this film, more than just about any other I've seen, put me through so many different emotional states during its 132-minute runtime, and did so without ever feeling muddled or tonally inconsistent. Parts of this movie were hilarious. Parts were heartbreaking. Other parts were insanely suspenseful (I'm honestly not sure if I've felt this close to the edge of my seat since the final season of Breaking Bad, way back in 2013)."
18b'And it does all this while being perfectly paced, beautifully directed, and amazingly acted from every single member of its cast. All the characters are understandable and sympathetic to some degree; the amount of conflict, drama and tension derived from a narrative with no clear heroes and villains is staggering. You come to care for just about all of them.'
19b"I'm stumped to come up with any flaws for this movie. And sure, I've seen many movies that are hard to fault, but it's rare that a movie appeals to me on a gut level and excites me to this degree while also being so close to technically perfect. It's extremely entertaining, thoroughly moving in so many different ways, and as icing on the cake there's a ton of social commentary and some heavy themes to chew on once the movie's over (and this one's not going to leave my head for a while, I can tell)."
20b"Catch this one when you can and believe the hype. Joon-Ho Bong has made many great films (and so far no bad one's), but this even manages to stand head and shoulders above all the others."
21b'When it comes time to consider what the best film of the 2010s was, this one will surely be up there.'
22b"I can't remember the last time I saw a movie that contained as many genres as 'Parasite'. The movie starts out almost like an 'Ocean's Eleven' heist film and then expands into a comedy, mystery, thriller, drama, romance, crime and even horror film. It really did have everything and it was strikingly good at all of them too."
23b'I love a film that respects its audience. There are so many details in this movie that are crucially important and yet the film trusts its audience to notice them and acknowledge them without ramming them down our throats. There are a lot of layers to this film and I suspect for this reason its rewatch-ability factor will be very high.'
24b"The film was incredibly entertaining too. I can't think of a boring scene in this movie and yet on the surface for large parts of the film you would say not a lot is happening, at least in terms of action. Fascinating characters and brilliant dialogue are what create this. I had a great time with 'Parasite' and I think most that give it a chance will too."
25b'In a meritocracy, success and fortune are reserved for those who deserve it--those who develop solid plans according to their talents and abilities and who execute those plans through hard work and determination. Anyone can rise to the top, and for some lucky Cinderella, plucked from the cinders and gussied up in gowns, the meritocracy represents the heights of perfect egalitarian society: "I started with nothing and ended up with everything I ever desired; you, too, can achieve you dreams, if only you try."'
26b'The promise of unobstructed sunshine at the top of the mountain becomes justification for bitter competition, backstabbing, deceit, and callousness. You climb the crooked ladder until you make it to the straight one, and then, perhaps, when you at last feel secure, you can afford to be kind and confident and generous. "It\'s easy to be nice when you\'re rich," the mother in this film (Jang Hye-jin) at one point observes.'
27b"But it's a very long and very crooked ladder, and sometimes the rungs give out beneath your grip, and sometimes they've been dangerously greased by those who climbed before you, and sometimes the ladder itself is simply kicked down--either by those above you or, just as often, by those staring up from the ground below. There are a lot of people trying to climb that one ladder."
28b"But in a meritocracy, you can't blame the ladder or the other people trying to climb it. Nor can you blame the fact that all the good stuff is kept so many stories up instead of down at the ground where everyone can easily reach it. No, you must blame yourself. You should have tread more carefully. You should have climbed more quickly. You should have used a firmer and more precise grip, anticipated disasters, and known just when to leap. If you fail in a meritocracy, it's all your fault. You should have tried harder. Better luck next time."
29b'Kim Ki-woo (Choi Woo-sik), the young man who is the main character of PARASITE, several times refers to "metaphors," and the film itself is, of course, a metaphor. On a surface level, viewers are treated to a very thrilling, engaging, well-paced and well-plotted crime story. At all times, however, bubbling up from beneath the slick surface of this genre film, there are deeply personal, meaningful truths that should resonate with almost any viewer. These insights are rarely foregrounded. They are so subtly interwoven, in fact, that if you\'re like me, you may be completely surprised when the final shots of the film roll and you realize that you are emotionally devastated by the intimate, humanist story you\'ve just witnessed. Bong Joon-ho\'s filmmaking is so extraordinary here that he\'ll make you fully invested in the lives of his characters without you even realizing he\'s done so.'
30b'I want to avoid spoilers here, but suffice it to say that PARASITE is a masterpiece--beautifully lensed, enthrallingly edited, superbly acted, and intimately involving.'
31b"South Korea has a population that is one sixth the size of the United States, and that population is stacked into skyscrapers in an area slightly smaller than the state of Kentucky. Higher education is widespread, so parents with means try to make their children stand above the pack by hiring them tutors and signing them up for extracurriculars and afterschool programs. I lived in Korea once, and the children I taught there were sometimes engaged in learning ten to twelve hours a day, six days a week--public school, English-immersion private school, piano class, soccer team, taekwondo, math camp, chess club, and so on. I routinely worked sixty to seventy hours a week on salary, but at bars I would meet young men my age who were expected to work far more than that, who slept at their desks so that they did not need to pry themselves from work for too long. As the father (Song Kang-ho) in the film at one point says, this is a country where fifty young men with college degrees apply for a mere security guard job. One can't afford not to struggle."
32b'The themes of this story are not just localized to Korea, however. They are the story of global capitalism, and the specter of American materialism (and imperialism; note the "Indians") looms heavily over the film. Meritocracy makes cannibals of us all. It\'s nice to dream, and sometimes the dreamers who plan and struggle well enough can indeed climb out of the basement and into the sunshine, and how nice an ending it is when they do. But the film also makes it clear that sometimes all that planning and dreaming may be, maybe, just whims and fancy. More often, it seems, our pipe dreams are content to leave us with nothing more than the whiff of spewed sewage.'
33b'Parasite was directed and written by Bong Joon Ho and tells the story of the Kim family and their life-changing involvement with the Park family.'
34b"Parasite can best be described as astonishing, astounding, stunning or any other synonym of amazing. It is so far my favourite film of the year and one of my favourite films of the decade. The very idea of the plot is simple but incredibly hard to execute and that's, why it's editing, is pitch-perfect and leads to an unexpectedly shocking and brutal ending."
35b"The biggest forte of Parasite is the screenplay as it impeccably mixes comedy, drama and horror featuring flawless pacing, breath-taking cinematography, a beautiful score and a brilliant cast making it a masterpiece. Parasite also perfectly presents the subject of classism, showing us how both the working class and the upper class view each other and the people around them. Themes of capitalism can also be felt throughout the film, but Parasite shouldn't be mistaken as a pro-capitalism film as it doesn't support or hate anyone or any side; it's ambiguity also contributes to this factor."
36b'Taking everything into account, Parasite is a true work of art and a rare and extraordinary masterpiece that should be viewed by everyone at some point in their lives, especially film lovers.'
37b'Final Rating - 10/10'
38b'This movie is a gosh darn masterpiece. It will make you belly laugh, it will chill you to the bone, and it will make you shed a tear. This movie will stay with you long after the credits are over.'
39b'If you plan on watching this movie, AVOID SPOILERS AT ALL COSTS.'
40b'The most original film of 2019 and it is wickedly funny and darkly disturbing all at the same time. The narrative and the actors were excellent. One of the better endings of a movie in quite a while. Class warfare at its best.'
41b'Most of the time when my opinion does not jibe with the majority I am confident in my assessment. With this one I am not so sure for some reason. That being said I think it is ridiculously overrated. I just really did not find it to be anything special. I thought the Japanese movie shoplifters was infinitely better.'
42b"Well written and performed also technically shines cinematography & bgm are too good and there's not even a single lag it's perfectly edited. Probably the best experience in recent times. Its pure art resembles the modern society the emotions they had shelved are insanely exceptional a layered masterpiece. If you like dark thrillers then you shouldn't miss Mr. Bong joon-ho's Parasite. Definitely tops the list of best movies in 2019."
43b"I came to this movie with an open mind, despite the hoo ha around it. Stylistically yep, I can see the hoo haa. The same goes for the acting, once again exceptional . The humour was also done really well. It's just that past the halfway mark it becomes a bit 'meh'. Kind of similar in a way to the film 'us', once it did it's core 'reveal'. It's good that western audiences will watch it and hopefully realise there is a film industry outside of the west..but this film just an ok for me"
44b'This is a well written and well perfomed original film. With a lot of repetitive cinema these day i felt this was something new. I felt connected and engaged with the character throughout the film. There are several well directed tense moments throughout the film. A popular topic of class struggled well portrayed. Its always nice to see foreign language films having worldwide success.'
45b"Here's how i rate a movie the fast way, i ask myself two questions.\nWho am I gonna recommend this movie to ?\nAm i gonna remember this movie a year from now ?"
46b'Beside the somewhat chaotically random events happening in the movie, Parasite wants to be way too many things at the same time, a deep serious movie with a message, a comedy, a drama, and a thriller, the mixture left me feeling confused and not really sure what to feel once it ended.'
47b"It wasn't too bad, some scenes were super intense and enjoyable for thriller lovers. But I don't see myself recommending it to anyone who wants all these genres crammed in a single movie, nor do I feel anything from the story was amazing enough to stick with me in the future."
48b"Do you want to see a movie that will have your stomach in knots, anxious during many scenes? Do you want to see a movie that will have you conflicted on who you're rooting for? Regardless of your answers, see Parasite.\nParasite ticks along quietly until it is booming in your ears. The symbolism varies. Sometimes it is obvious, Bong Joon-ho might as well have made the subtitles spell it out. But other times it is more subtle, and you might realize a connection or symbolism days or weeks after. Bong Joon-ho is a master at that.\nThe conversation that it sparks is worth the $13-20 it costs to see the film. Parasite has made me think more than most films I've seen. Give it a watch, see it with friends or family and the dinner table will have a conversation overflowing with opinions and realizations."
49b'As a film about a family imposing on another, and keeping dark secrets hidden beneath the surface, Parasite achieves what Jordan Peele set out to do with Us: tell a multi-layered story in a widely entertaining manner, but without sacrificing the believability of its central narrative.'
50b"That's not to say that Us is an ineffective film by any means, but when it comes to crafting weighty social commentaries under the guise of lighter fare, writer-director Bong Joon-ho is in a class of his own."
51b'The film follows a lower-class South Korean family as they slowly integrate themselves in the lives of an upper-class family and their lavish household. As their entanglement is spun out of a web of deceit, the lowly family find themselves skating on thin ice when it comes to keeping up appearances.'
52b"It's a twisty satire on social-economic disparities in South Korean society that swings broadly in tone, and sometimes threatens to tip over the edge, but never feels less than meticulously calculated in its tonal shifts."
53b'However, to reveal anything more about the story would be to take away from the overall experience, as each act is marked by a major plot twist or revelation that keeps the film one step ahead of the viewer at all times. Go in blind if you can and expect an unforgettable ride.'
54b'Parasite (Gisaengchung), the 2019 film by Bong Joon-ho, taps into the tensions caused by the widening gap between rich and poor around the world.'
55b'The film, delivering a strong social commentary that can be interpreted at a universal level, follows two families on opposite sides of the social and financial totem pole. It is a darkly entertaining and suspenseful look at a poor but incredibly cunning family living in a filthy basement and the rich Park family, the polar opposites of our protagonists. The film makes you play a guessing game of which of the two families are the most rotten.'
56b"Winner of the Palme d'Or at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival, Parasite shows the extent to which we go to in order to live a comfortable life. The devil is in the detail in this grotesque critique of social inequality and the psychology of money."
57b"The film is ok but that's as far as I go. It's worth a watch but only a score of 6 for me. It's not a masterpiece, it's not film of the decade it's not even film of the year. I don't understand how people can give it 10, 10 is a perfect score. 10 is unachievable in my opinion as nothing is perfect."
58b'This movie is so masterfully written and presented with a large cast that older audiences will realize how rare movies like this have become. Its enjoyment comes from getting to know the members of two extremely different families, one very poor, the other very rich. How their lives come together is the wickedly enjoyable first half; then, in the second half the house of cards begins to shake and finally collapse with a fury we both dread - and perhaps even enjoy. Though our enjoyment probably has as much to do with the movie-making skills than with the nasty turn of events in the violent final scenes.\nIf you see only one foreign language film this year, this should be it. Exciting and provocative throughout, it is wonderfully acted and packed with significance for all who live in a polarized society where so many live in luxury, while others live in comparative squalor just a few blocks away. Deserves all the accolades it has already - and surely will continue - to receive.'
59b'What an amazing film! Clearly an essay on the class divide. Writing lovable but nasty people is tough, but perfectly executed here.'
60b'They quite clearly cross the line, and when I mean "they" I mean bother the working class and the upper class.\nYou could easily argue that "parasite" refers to one family trying to suck another family dry. Or that the upper class is draining the labour of the lower class, and expecting them to be grateful about it too!\nThere is also something about the American Indian theme, a metaphor for dying cultural traditions which are being replaced by modernity? Nature is dog eat dog? Or is it a homage to an "idyllic" past where Native American culture was relatively classless?'
61b'Either way a must watch if you can handle subtitles!'
62b"I watched this movie. it's a good movie but i couldn't understand how it won the best picture. i think this movie doesn't deserve that for sure."
63b"I tried to watch this movie once, and faded out after the first ten minutes. It's surprising too, as the first scenes with the slacker family were very, very funny and entertaining. It reminded me of the beginning of Old Boy in a way. Upon my second viewing, I was stunned. Fully engrossed, and entertained all the way through. This is perhaps the best film of the year (I haven't seen Little Women or 1917 yet)."
64b"The story is about a slacker family who stealthy make their way into the lives of a rich family by becoming their employees. The rich family doesn't know they are related. The poor family discover a man living in the basement, who happens to be the former maids husband. Violence ensues, and the movie just becomes more detailed, fun, thrilling, and entertaining all the way through."
65b"Usually movies tend to drop out near the end, or close to the climax. I find I usually get bored at this point. This film doesn't do that. It almost reminds me of Fight Club with its dark humor and thrills. In fact, that's the only movie that comes to mind, though they are very different films. Parasite does have its own take on class, which is very prevalent. It seems the rich and poor are very similar, with the middle class not even being presented in the movie."
66b"Overall, this is a tremendous movie. I'm glad I gave it a second chance. Probably the best movie of the year."
67b'7 stars'
68b'There is no shortage of films that depict the injustice of social inequality but originality is scarce. With a large proportion of its population below the poverty line, it is noteworthy that a filmmaker from South Korea has produced a work that has attracted almost universal acclaim. Parasite (2019)generates a great deal of conversation but be warned: it is not a film for everyone, especially those averse to gory endings.'
69b"If you step back from the story's twists and turns, the narrative premise is simple. A family of petty crooks living in abject poverty get lucky as, one by one, each tricks their way into being employed by the same heartlessly wealthy family in roles like tutor, driver, and housekeeper. The gullible family is easy to deceive, while the crooks manufacture various scenarios to their own advantage. The occupation of the luxurious home by the crooks adds a new meaning to the concept of home invasion. However, the plan comes un-stuck when they find a secret dungeon that leads to horrific consequences."
70b"The film takes too much time in developing the central premise and various sub-plots, and more descriptive prose could be offered here about what actually happens. But that is not the point of the film. Director Joon-ho Bong paints an intricate portrait of the normalisation of poverty and class privilege, with both sets of family never questioning their place in South Korea's social order. This acceptance and its destructiveness of the human spirit makes change impossible and condemns Korean society to moral bankruptcy."
71b"There is more to this film than political discourse. As a black comedy, it is sprinkled with funny although improbable moments and the filming style expresses the polemic in obvious ways. Juxtaposing the world occupied by a smelly cramped underclass with the opulent world of the rich is low-hanging fruit. One can also find elements of magical fantasy, as it requires an unequivocal suspension of disbelief to accept that a family of losers can so easily dupe a family of high achievers. The acting tends towards wooden, and it is difficult to warm to any particular character. The film's climax offers little other than an ambivalent balance between hope and nihilism, leaving viewers to decide which family are the parasites."
72b"For many, the critical pendulum swings towards the 'masterpiece' label. But it is perhaps closer to reality to describe this as an original, engaging, and disturbing tale of endemic class tension, oppression, and helplessness. Although tenuous, the message has universal relevance."
73b"Good movie, interesting story line, but never in a million years could win a oscar for best movie of the year...Political decision for sure! that's the world we live in unfortunately."
74b"I'm really amazed under which category this film lies. Comedy? It is not funny at all. Tragedy ? I don't know!!!\nFour Oscars and Palm d'or !!!! Are you serious.\nI can't say that I know better than the people who awarded the film these prizes, I'm sure the problem is me, there is something hidden deep in this movie I couldn't see."
75b"My rating: A-plus.\n(Just like what others have already stated in this comment section: BEST WATCHED WHEN ONE DOESN'T HAVE MUCH PRIOR KNOWLEDGE OF THIS FILM:)"
76b"\nStarts with an unemployed Ki-woo who was asked to replace his college student friend in being a rich girl's English tutor even though he hasn't got qualifications apart from having been a repeat-taker of university entrance exams..."
77b"This one ends up becoming a thorough scrutiny of the gluttonous side of human nature which is always a welcome and an essential ingredient in any bitter satire that's in the same vein as one of those Coen Brothers' films. And this one needs to feed off the audience's unabashed derisive laughter for it to deemed a worthy yang to the yin of that J-P Jeunet classic Le fabuleux destin d'Am\xc3\xa9lie Poulain or even to a lesser extent C Nolan's Inception. Whereas the wistful rom-com and the meta sci-fi have its darker elements in the narrative neatly tucked away in its recesses, the Palme d'Or recipient does the exact opposite. Such dualism that occurs in the cinematic world is much needed which serves to cleanse each other's cinematic excesses. And it took a long time for a film like this Korean one to come by and serve as a worthy film to counterbalance the sentimentalism which can only be considered to be a magnet very much ripe for any Cy-Bugs to devour wantonly in such an orgiastic frenzy."
78b"But the film itself can be considered as sharing the same kindredship and is way aligned more to the thematic and aesthetic sensibilities of Yorgos Lanthimos' ones (Dogtooth, The Lobster, or even the Favourite), if not quite to be considered as it's ugly, distant cocaine-junkie cousin, shares the same filmic DNA sure, though fun at parties but can be a bit of a deadweight accomplice. Whereas Boon-J-H's film is more rooted in emotional judgments that each of the characters made that has quite sensible outcomes, Lanthimos' looks like the logic that pervades throughout have just been delivered via a spaceship that endured light-years' distance flight."
79b"Kudos to the brilliant actors and the technical crew that delivered polished work, all had their share in driving the narrative the writer/director put forth for it to become a resounding triumph. Made me laugh so hard I feel the need to re-watch it again soon. Not to give much away of the story, I will only mention one that's among my favorite scenes, that of one character's delicious rant mimicking North Korean newscasts delivered with much hysterical gusto. I can't help but fall out of my chair on that one. It is such an impressive, inspired work of an ensemble that might just beg for an American language remake because the immediacy of the issues explored might be considered to be a meaty enough for the Hollywood actors to consider sinking their teeth into, that is if the richness of the allusions that are very particular to the Korean identity and consciousness does not work against that thought."
80b'Following the step of Get Out, it is a powerful film that comprises of metaphors and allegories which need you to think beyond a certain level as they are manifested throughout. No worries, you will understand the film even if you fail to unlock the codes unlike Mother! & Us.'
81b'Parasite welcomes the audience into multi-genres and tonal shifts that mix and take its turn after every act. Pure comedy, dark comedy to heavy dramas, horror, thriller, mystery, you name it. The director, Bong Joon-Ho wonderfully converts them smoothly without letting the audience feels bizarre of the transformation.'
82b'With merely 10 characters into play, Parasite brilliantly executes layer after layer of interesting character developments which progresses the plot forward to ultimately produce a comprehensive film.'
83b'Parasite professionally handles cinematic tricks to synchronize every possible element for the greater good such as excellent use of cinematography techniques with superb artistic values, information-packed dialogues, lavish architecture production designs & vibrant colours.'
84b'Quite certain scenes feel a little too long and weary. If they can cut short and add new scenes instead, the pacing will be better and more entertaining.'
85b'Majestic musical set pieces is utilized in the background to help produce a richer tone to the distinct elements.'
86b'The suspenseful moments would have you at the edge of your seat without noticing until the point you recall your experience inside the hall.'
87b"Verdict: A strongly crafted masterpiece film on social themes and satire that finds its place in audience's heart."
88b'In short, it is one of those episodes of Black Mirror.'
89